in this lesson I want to talk about
Microsoft enter
is a new suite of identity related
solution so many of the components of
intra you would have heard of before
it's just now
they're under this
umbrella of Microsoft enter now
Microsoft enter does have its own portal
so I could jump over and look at the
Microsoft enter admin Center here we can
see its URL is entra.microsoft.com
and the goal is through this one
interface I can see all of the different
components that make up enter however
I could still use existing interfaces
for example Azure active directory is
still under my regular
portal.azure.com the enter portal just
really focuses on all of those identity
related Solutions and we can see them
all listed here in this overview page
and so what is in Microsoft enter
so the first one is azure active
directory and the functionality has not
changed so we have the idea if we have
an Azure ad tenant
and this is our identity provider we
have
objects for our users for computers for
applications and then as a user
I authenticate to my Azure active
directory and then many different
applications this could be an Azure it
could be office it could be third
parties so these other Solutions trust
my Azure ID and then I get nice features
like single sign-on
there's capabilities like conditional
access to apply policy
but Azure ID hey it's part of Microsoft
enter
then we also have this component called
verified ID
so verified ID
all about the idea of decentralized
identities and decentralized identifiers
that represent some object now with
verified ID the point is that I am now
in the middle
if we looked at Azure ad who's in the
middle is azure ID and then I use it but
it's all about the Azure active
directory with verified identity I have
some software wallet
this could be for example the Microsoft
authenticator app
and the way this works is certain
institutions it could be the government
it could be a company I work for
whatever that is they're going to create
these very viable credentials that make
certain claims about me and they're
going to issue it to me
so they issue this verifiable credential
to me and then if there's some other
party
that I want to prove something about
myself
I can do a verifiable presentation
and I get to pick and this is the key
point I am in control of these
verifiable credentials
which is a certain type
and then these can and they can be
verified so the whole point here is all
of this is built on some trust system
now there were many different truss
systems available the common one people
will think of is a blockchain like
um Bitcoin for example and there are
Ones based on blockchains but there are
other methods of doing this as well but
the key point is they can verify through
this Ledger
and when they issue it they have certain
objects in there as well but the key
Point here is Microsoft's intra allows
me as an organization to both issue and
verify those verifiable credentials so
this is part of the Microsoft enter as
well
another component of Microsoft intro is
permissions management
and this was the cloud Knox acquisition
so this is based around the idea of well
there's different clouds obviously we
think about azure
but there were really three big clouds
today I can think of azure I could think
of AWS and I could think of Google Cloud
platform
and as a user
I have
permissions
maybe on one or more of these clouds so
there's some sort of role-based access
control of what I can do and what tends
to happen over time is they get more and
more permissions we have more than we
need so what permissions management does
is first of all it can help me inventory
the permissions across all of these
different clouds that users or service
principles I and I tend to use by an
application has
it can work out okay well what are they
actually using so what is the access use
so you have all these permissions but
you're using this tiny tiny subset which
ones might be considered risky
and then it can right size
so it can create custom
roles that give you just enough
permission
to what you're actually using and it can
even spot things like on demand
elevation now we have seen on-demand
elevation with things like privilege
identity management but that's only for
Azure an Azure active directory and this
is more ad hoc so it's not saying I'm
planning on properly want to use hey I
just need to for this instant in time
get these extra permissions so this
permissions management allows me to do
that over these different clouds as well
and I mentioned this idea of well hey
applications have identities in there as
well and so one of the other big areas
of functionality is around this idea
of those workload
identities
but a service principle I have a managed
identity for an Azure resource
but they typically have fairly High
privileges because they're they're doing
maybe important tasks that need higher
sets of permissions and so when I think
about these
workload identity is
I still have requirements around their
security maybe alerts around what's
happening to them so workload identities
brings together capabilities around
conditional access around identity
protection access reviews logging for
these identities that are not used by
some human being
and then there's a whole set of other
Technologies
that we think of around identity
governance
now many of these we've had for a long
time we think about entitlement
management
this is where I can create access
packages that comprise of group
memberships application assignments
SharePoint sites and then I can
configure certain groups are allow to
request the access package maybe it has
to go through some kind of approval
then they get that for some time box
time
we have Concepts like access reviews
where I can review or delegate or users
can self-review do you still need this
group membership do you still need this
application assignment do you still need
this role to help again stop that
bloating over time of permissions
this means that privilege of density
management so I can do that just in time
elevation against the Azure roles and
Azure ad roles
but one of the nice new functionalities
here is life cycle
workflows
and this is
just around the idea that if I think
okay there is some company
and we always talk about the idea of as
kind of the the human being as the
person well there's times that we join a
company
so there's Joiner mover lever
so I leave a company and focus on this
today is the join and leave scenarios
not so much the moving within the
company
and that I can consider what we're in
those joining and leaving there are
things that I might want to do before
they join
so X number of days before they join the
company maybe send out a welcome email
hey go and order your laptop there are
things I might want to do on the day I'm
actually hired
and likewise on the when I'm leaving
there might be things I want to do in
advance of leaving
on the day I'm leaving and even post
maybe I'm joining some uh elune
Illuminati um set of groups so I can
stay in contact with other people and
what life cycle workflows does is for
all of these I can define a set of tasks
that based on attributes of sort of
higher day and leaving date I can say
hey a certain number end days before and
days before end days post and obviously
on the day
perform these various tasks and there's
a whole set of these actually built in
that you can base this off so if I was
to go and look at my identity governance
and then lifecycle workflows
we'll see that I actually have some
created for onboard pre-hire and then
real-time employee termination but if I
say create
you can see there are ones around join
us so pre-hire an actual day of hire and
then lever real-time employee
termination pre-op boarding off-boarding
and post off-boarding and all of these
consist of various tasks if I was to go
back and just look at one of mine and
look at the tasks
there's a whole set of tasks that you
can configure
that might apply to only joining might
apply to only leaving May apply to both
so I can just very easily go and
configure those and as part of one of
these
I can Define the trigger and I can
Define things like well how many days
from the event do I actually want to do
this
and that's really what Microsoft enter
is it's a collection of Technologies
related to Identity both have that
centralized identity provider working
around decentralized identities and then
handling permissions access reviews and
that full life cycle management of your
users
that concludes this lesson